## What is stored in the Maven metadata (maven-metadata.xml)?

The `maven-metadata.xml` file is a place where Maven stores basic information about artifacts. It can contain useful data such as, for example:

- Which timestamped artifact file represents the current `SNAPSHOT` artifact
- What the latest deployed version of an artifact is
- What the most recent released version of an artifact is
- What plugins can be found under a `groupId`

## What types of metadata are there and where are they stored?

- Artifact root-level `maven-metadata.xml`. This is used for storing the top-level versions of artifacts. For example, if an artifact has versions `1.0`, `1.1`, `1.2`, this `maven-metadata.xml` will only contain version information about them. Consider the following `maven-metadata.xml`:

TODO: Provide an example.

- Artifact version-level `maven-metadata.xml`. This is used only for timestamped `SNAPSHOT` versioned artifaccts. The purpose of this file is to contain a list of the existing timestamped artifacts, while at the same time specifying which one of them is the latest deployed one that should be used as the actual `SNAPSHOT` artifact to be resolved by Maven. 
- Group-level plugin information for plugins. This is a top-level `maven-metadata.xml` file containing a list of the available plugins under this `groupId`.

## What are the official resources on Maven metadata?
- [Introduction](http://maven.apache.org/ref/3.3.3/maven-repository-metadata/index.html)
- [maven-metadata.xml reference](http://maven.apache.org/ref/3.3.3/maven-repository-metadata/repository-metadata.html)
- [Javadocs](http://maven.apache.org/ref/3.3.3/maven-repository-metadata/apidocs/index.html)

##What's the difference between `maven-metadata.xml` and `maven-metadata-xyz.xml`?
- In remote repositories, the metadata generated by Maven (and/or managed by the respective artifact repository manager) is stored in a `maven-metadata.xml` file.
- In local repositories, Maven stores the collected metadata from the remote server into a `maven-metadata-${repositoryServerId}.xml` file where `${repositoryServerId}` is the server id stored in your Maven [`settings.xml`](https://maven.apache.org/settings.html#Servers) (for example `<server><id>development-snapshots</id></server>`).
